---
sidebar_position: 6
title: Course Outline (subject to change)
sidebar_label: Course Outline
---

## Assignments

* Assignments and Labs are open book, open note, open internet
  * Be aware the internet may come up with a different solution than the one in class and that may or may not be correct

### In-Class Assignments

Assignments are given in-class and are due at the end of the class period.

### Quizzes

Quizzes will test your knowledge of the material covered in class.

### Labs

Labs will have you practice the skills learned in class by running SQL statements on a database, and then completing a series of questions about those queries.

### Final Project

The final project is designed to assess your ability to use the skills and knowledge learned throughout the course. The project contains two parts, one using a Linux System and one using a Windows Server system. The final project instructions are available to view at any time but must be completed by the due date specified. A more detailed explanation will be given at the end of the semester when the project is assigned.

You are free to use any resource to help complete the project, excluding the instructor. Think of the project as an open world test. You may use your notes, ask for help from others, or even use the Internet.

## Course Modules

### Module 1 Intro to Relational Databases and SQL

This module will help you become familiar with the concepts and terms that apply to database management systems. You will learn what a relational database is and some of the basic SQL statements and features provided by SQL Server.

### Module 2 How to Use Management Studio (2 weeks)

This module introduces the Management Studio, the primary tools for working with a database server.

### Module 3 Retrieving Data From a Single Table

This module covers how to code SELECT statements that retrieve data from a single table.

### Module 4 Retrieving Data From Two or More Tables (2 weeks)

This module covers how to create result sets that contain data from two or more tables.

### Module 5 How to Code Summary Queries

This module covers how to code queries that summarize data.

### Module 6 How Code Subqueries (2 weeks)

This module demonstrates how to code subqueries- a SELECT statement that is coded within another SQL statement.

### Module 7 How to INSERT, UPDATE, and DELETE Data

This module covers how to code the INSERT, UPDATE, and DELETE statements to modify the data in a table.

### Module 8 How to Work With Data Types

For the first seven modules, we’ve been using SQL statements to work with the three most common types of data: strings, numbers, and dates. Now, in Module 8, we take a more in-depth look at the data types that are available with SQL Server and some basic skills for working with them

### Module 9 How to Work with Functions (2 weeks)

SQL Server has many built-in functions. This module contains string, numeric, date, conversion, and some other advanced functions in SQL Server.

### Final Project
